+++
title = 'My Journey Through Browsers: From Internet Explorer to LibreWolf'
date = 2024-09-05T07:10:22-03:00
draft = false
tags = ["Internet Explorer","LibreWolf","Firefox","Chrome","Opera","Ungoogled-Chromium","Privacy","Web Browsers","Open Source","Technology Evolution","Internet History","Windows 98","Browser Comparison","Digital Privacy","Web Development"]
+++

The internet has been a central part of my life for as long as I can remember. It all started in the early 2000s when my
parents bought our first family computer. Back then, internet access was limited, and I could only use it on Saturdays
after 2 pm because bandwidth was cheaper during off-peak hours. But those restrictions didn’t bother me; I was hooked on
exploring the digital world. I spent countless hours trying to discover new game websites, looking for tips to beat my
PlayStation games, or finding fun browser-based games. This was just the beginning.

### The Early Days: Internet Explorer and Windows 98

Our computer came with Windows 98, and my first window into the internet was Internet Explorer 5. As slow and clunky as
it was, it opened up a world of possibilities. One of my greatest early discoveries was learning how to "save pages" to
read offline, a game-changer given our limited internet time. As I became more comfortable with the web, I stumbled
across the Brazilian website **Baixaki**, which was a treasure trove of downloadable software. But since my internet
connection was slow, downloads would often take the entire weekend, which only added to the anticipation.

### Discovering Firefox: A Game Changer

While exploring Baixaki, I came across **Firefox**, and it was like a breath of fresh air. Firefox was faster, more
efficient, and for the first time, I felt like I was truly experiencing the potential of the internet. Soon after, I
switched to Firefox, making it my default browser and never looking back. Around this time, I even tried a browser with
a red dinosaur logo, but its name escapes me now. It wasn’t long before Firefox 1.5 came, followed by **Firefox 2**,
which solidified my loyalty to this browser as I dived deeper into web development and coding.

### Enter Chrome: A Revolution

Then came **Google Chrome**. Its release felt revolutionary. While Firefox had become somewhat resource-heavy and
sluggish, Chrome was lightning fast and efficient. Still, early versions of Chrome had some quirks. I remember one in
particular—if you closed the browser while downloading something, it would cancel the download without warning. This
frustration kept me from switching right away, but I knew that in time, Chrome would resolve these issues. And it did,
with fast release cycles that I wasn’t used to in the era of slow software updates.

As a noob web developer, part of me hesitated to fully switch due to Firefox’s amazing **Web Developer toolbar addon**,
but over time, Chrome won me over with its speed and simplicity.

### Opera, RockMelt, and Other Adventures

Around this period, I also experimented with **Opera**. It was always highly praised in forums, touted as being faster
and more secure than its competitors. While Opera had its moments, there was always something that didn’t quite fit my
workflow, and I would inevitably return to Chrome.

For a brief but fun period, I switched to **RockMelt**, a Chromium fork designed for social media interaction. It
allowed me to chat and interact with my contacts without having to open social media sites. It was short-lived, but it
was a novel concept that reflected how browsers were becoming more than just tools for browsing—they were evolving into
comprehensive digital platforms.

### Chromium and the Quest for Privacy

As my online habits matured, so did my concern for privacy and security. I eventually moved to **Ungoogled-Chromium**, a
more privacy-focused version of Chrome. This was a significant step for me, but as my browsing habits became more
plugin-dependent, every attempt to switch back to Firefox failed. Firefox simply didn’t have all the plugins I relied
on.

I stuck with Ungoogled-Chromium for several years, appreciating its minimalist and privacy-centered design. However,
life threw a curveball when the company I was working for decided that we could only use "verified" browsers. That’s
when I decided to give Firefox another shot.

### Back to Firefox and the Move to LibreWolf

This time, switching back to Firefox was a success. For almost two years, I used Firefox as my main browser, enjoying
its flexibility and privacy tools. But as I continued to refine my approach to security and data ownership, I became
intrigued by the idea of a browser that was privacy-focused right out of the box. This led me to **LibreWolf**.

LibreWolf promised everything I wanted: strong privacy settings, no telemetry, and complete control over my browsing
experience. I made the switch recently, and along with it, I set up my own Firefox Sync server, giving me full ownership
of my data. It’s an exciting new chapter in my ongoing journey through the world of browsers, and I’m eager to see where
this path leads next.

### The Browser Journey Continues…

Looking back, my browser journey has been a fascinating ride through the evolution of the internet itself. From the
early days of **Internet Explorer** and slow, dial-up connections, to **Firefox**, **Chrome**, and now **LibreWolf**,
each browser represents a stage of growth in my digital life.

I doubt this is the last chapter in my story with browsers, but I’m excited about what’s to come. Browsers have come a
long way from being simple tools for accessing the web to becoming powerful platforms for privacy, productivity, and
creativity. Who knows what the next leap will be? Until then, I’ll continue exploring, learning, and tweaking as I go.
